README.md, before:

# PPL-MCTS
This is the repository for the code of the **[PPL-MCTS: Constrained Textual Generation Through Discriminator-Guided Decoding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.13582.pdf)** paper.

It is a plug-and-play decoding method that uses Monte Carlo Tree Search to find a sequence that satisfy a constraint defined by a discriminator. It can be used to guide **any** language model with **any** discriminator that verify if the input sequence satisfy the desired constraint or not.
The code is based on the [Hugging Face transformers library](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index) both for the language model and the discriminator.
## Setup :wrench:
On a Python 3 installation (tested in 3.8), simply install the dependencies defined in the requirement.txt file using

    pip install -r requirements.txt
## Execution parameters
A number of parameters can be defined when executing the MCTS.
|Parameter | Definition |
|--|--|
|\-\-c   |  The exploration constant (c_puct)|
|\-\-alpha   |  The alpha parameter that guide the exploration toward likelihood or value|
|\-\-temperature  |  Language model temperature when calculating priors|
|\-\-penalty   |  Value of the repetition penalty factor defined in the [CTRL paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05858)|
|\-\-num_it  |  Number of MCTS iteration for one token|
|\-\-rollout_size  |  Number of tokens to generate during rollout|
|\-\-batch_size  |  Batch size|

## Code walkthrough
Some lines of code can be adjusted for your usage.
Define the path were Hugging Face models and data will be stored
```python
os.environ['TRANSFORMERS_CACHE'] =
```
Import desired architecture for language model and discriminator and corresponding tokenizers.
```python
from transformers import GPT2LMHeadModel, GPT2TokenizerFast, RepetitionPenaltyLogitsProcessor, FlaubertTokenizer, FlaubertModel
```
(Optional, you can replace the discriminator by a HF vanilla one as the language model below)

Define the downstream architecture of the discriminator an import discriminator weights
```python
#-------------- Model definition ---------------#

class  Net(nn.Module):
	
	def  __init__(self):
		super(Net,  self).__init__()
		self.flaubert = FlaubertModel.from_pretrained('flaubert/flaubert_large_cased',  		output_hidden_states=True)
		self.fc_classif = nn.Linear(1024,  2)

	def  forward(self, texts):
		tokenizer_res = tokenizer.batch_encode_plus(texts,  truncation=True,  max_length=512,  padding='longest')
		tokens_tensor = torch.cuda.LongTensor(tokenizer_res['input_ids'])
		attention_tensor = torch.cuda.LongTensor(tokenizer_res['attention_mask'])
		output =  self.flaubert(tokens_tensor,  attention_mask=attention_tensor)
		text = F.normalize(torch.div(torch.sum(output[1][-1],  axis=1),torch.unsqueeze(torch.sum(attention_tensor,  axis=1),1)))
		text =  self.fc_classif(text)
		return nn.Softmax(dim  =  1)(text).cpu()

model_path =  "../datasets/flue/CLS/models/validation_BEST_bert_tuned_2021_08_19-17_58_19.pth"
```
Import language model weights
```python
gpt = GPT2LMHeadModel.from_pretrained("../../gpt2-cls/best")
tokenizer_gpt = GPT2TokenizerFast.from_pretrained("../../gpt2-cls/best")
```
**Define the function that take sequences token ids and returns probability the belong to the target class for each sequence**
```python
def  get_values(tokens_ids, labels):
	"""Gets sequence scores from the discriminator"""
	propositions = tokenizer_gpt.batch_decode(tokens_ids,  skip_special_tokens=True,  clean_up_tokenization_spaces=True)
	with torch.no_grad():
		outputs =  net(propositions)
		return outputs[labels]
```
Define prompts to fill using MCTS and corresponding labels
```python
for i, (_, row) in  enumerate(lines.iterrows()):
	labels[i, int(row["label"])] =  1
	prompt_texts[i] =  "<|startoftext|> "  +  str(row["text"])
```
## Execution time
PPL-MCTS use a BERT, which is a transformer with bidirectional attention, as guiding discriminator. Using a discriminator with unidirectional attention allow to greatly speed up the generation by using cached hidden states. 
You can find more information as well as code working with different type of discriminator in the [teammates folder](https://github.com/NohTow/PPL-MCTS/tree/main/teammates).

**Please consider using the version working with an unidirectional model as it results in a massive gain in generation time with little effect on the generation quality.**

## Training
For exhaustiveness, the code used to train our discriminators is also available. Please note that these scripts are not really great and that the updated version available in the [teammates folder](https://github.com/NohTow/PPL-MCTS/tree/main/teammates) is easier to use and better interfaced with HuggingFace library. 


## References
```
@article{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-2109-13582,
  author    = {Antoine Chaffin and
               Vincent Claveau and
               Ewa Kijak},
  title     = {{PPL-MCTS: Constrained Textual Generation Through Discriminator-Guided MCTS Decoding}},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/2109.13582},
  year      = {2021},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.13582},
  eprinttype = {arXiv},
  eprint    = {2109.13582},
  timestamp = {Mon, 04 Oct 2021 17:22:25 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/journals/corr/abs-2109-13582.bib},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}

```

Commit message:

Add link to reproduce paper results

README.md, after:

# PPL-MCTS
This is the repository for the code of the **[PPL-MCTS: Constrained Textual Generation Through Discriminator-Guided Decoding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.13582.pdf)** paper.

It is a plug-and-play decoding method that uses Monte Carlo Tree Search to find a sequence that satisfy a constraint defined by a discriminator. It can be used to guide **any** language model with **any** discriminator that verify if the input sequence satisfy the desired constraint or not.
The code is based on the [Hugging Face transformers library](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index) both for the language model and the discriminator.
## Setup :wrench:
On a Python 3 installation (tested in 3.8), simply install the dependencies defined in the requirement.txt file using

    pip install -r requirements.txt
## Execution parameters
A number of parameters can be defined when executing the MCTS.
|Parameter | Definition |
|--|--|
|\-\-c   |  The exploration constant (c_puct)|
|\-\-alpha   |  The alpha parameter that guide the exploration toward likelihood or value|
|\-\-temperature  |  Language model temperature when calculating priors|
|\-\-penalty   |  Value of the repetition penalty factor defined in the [CTRL paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05858)|
|\-\-num_it  |  Number of MCTS iteration for one token|
|\-\-rollout_size  |  Number of tokens to generate during rollout|
|\-\-batch_size  |  Batch size|

Working example: 
`python mcts_rollout_amazon.py --temperature 1.2 --penalty 1.2 --c 8 --num_it 50 --rollout_size 10 --batch_size 25`

## Paper results reproduction
Models weights and files used to built prompts for experiments in our paper can be found [here](http://people.irisa.fr/Vincent.Claveau/caches/divers/PPL_MCTS_filetransfer.zip)

## Code walkthrough
Some lines of code can be adjusted for your usage.
Define the path were Hugging Face models and data will be stored
```python
os.environ['TRANSFORMERS_CACHE'] =
```
Import desired architecture for language model and discriminator and corresponding tokenizers.
```python
from transformers import GPT2LMHeadModel, GPT2TokenizerFast, RepetitionPenaltyLogitsProcessor, FlaubertTokenizer, FlaubertModel
```
(Optional, you can replace the discriminator by a HF vanilla one as the language model below)

Define the downstream architecture of the discriminator an import discriminator weights
```python
#-------------- Model definition ---------------#

class  Net(nn.Module):
	
	def  __init__(self):
		super(Net,  self).__init__()
		self.flaubert = FlaubertModel.from_pretrained('flaubert/flaubert_large_cased',  		output_hidden_states=True)
		self.fc_classif = nn.Linear(1024,  2)

	def  forward(self, texts):
		tokenizer_res = tokenizer.batch_encode_plus(texts,  truncation=True,  max_length=512,  padding='longest')
		tokens_tensor = torch.cuda.LongTensor(tokenizer_res['input_ids'])
		attention_tensor = torch.cuda.LongTensor(tokenizer_res['attention_mask'])
		output =  self.flaubert(tokens_tensor,  attention_mask=attention_tensor)
		text = F.normalize(torch.div(torch.sum(output[1][-1],  axis=1),torch.unsqueeze(torch.sum(attention_tensor,  axis=1),1)))
		text =  self.fc_classif(text)
		return nn.Softmax(dim  =  1)(text).cpu()

model_path =  "../datasets/flue/CLS/models/validation_BEST_bert_tuned_2021_08_19-17_58_19.pth"
```
Import language model weights
```python
gpt = GPT2LMHeadModel.from_pretrained("../../gpt2-cls/best")
tokenizer_gpt = GPT2TokenizerFast.from_pretrained("../../gpt2-cls/best")
```
**Define the function that take sequences token ids and returns probability the belong to the target class for each sequence**
```python
def  get_values(tokens_ids, labels):
	"""Gets sequence scores from the discriminator"""
	propositions = tokenizer_gpt.batch_decode(tokens_ids,  skip_special_tokens=True,  clean_up_tokenization_spaces=True)
	with torch.no_grad():
		outputs =  net(propositions)
		return outputs[labels]
```
Define prompts to fill using MCTS and corresponding labels
```python
for i, (_, row) in  enumerate(lines.iterrows()):
	labels[i, int(row["label"])] =  1
	prompt_texts[i] =  "<|startoftext|> "  +  str(row["text"])
```
## Execution time
PPL-MCTS use a BERT, which is a transformer with bidirectional attention, as guiding discriminator. Using a discriminator with unidirectional attention allow to greatly speed up the generation by using cached hidden states. 
You can find more information as well as code working with different type of discriminator in the [teammates folder](https://github.com/NohTow/PPL-MCTS/tree/main/teammates).

**Please consider using the version working with an unidirectional model as it results in a massive gain in generation time with little effect on the generation quality.**

## Training
For exhaustiveness, the code used to train our discriminators is also available. Please note that these scripts are not really great and that the updated version available in the [teammates folder](https://github.com/NohTow/PPL-MCTS/tree/main/teammates) is easier to use and better interfaced with HuggingFace library. 


## References
```
@article{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-2109-13582,
  author    = {Antoine Chaffin and
               Vincent Claveau and
               Ewa Kijak},
  title     = {{PPL-MCTS: Constrained Textual Generation Through Discriminator-Guided MCTS Decoding}},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/2109.13582},
  year      = {2021},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.13582},
  eprinttype = {arXiv},
  eprint    = {2109.13582},
  timestamp = {Mon, 04 Oct 2021 17:22:25 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/journals/corr/abs-2109-13582.bib},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}

```
